---
layout: post
title:      "Still Reeling from Rails"
date:       2021-02-24 15:23:07 +0000
permalink:  still_reeling_from_rails
---


It really seemed like alot to process in the beginning. After generating models it seemed like I was drawing a blank. "Relax dude" has become one of the more frequently used phrases for the voice in my head. Relaxing and doing what you know first really keeps the stress down. Initially my focus is on getting my migrations and model associations and simple validations in place. After those are solid the amount of playing around I normally do with the code never seems to cause anything too crazy to happen. The MVC voice in my head definitely followed me from Sinatra. So naturally I have to make sure my routes are aligning with my views and tht my controller actions tell enough of a story for my view to translate. The tricky things, for me, this go round was utilizing OmniAuth for third party authorization and really understanding nested resources. Of course my first attempt was sour. I tried using Facebook first but their policy change on apps using http through me for a loop. My system's localhost is an http where facebook now requires an https for their apps.  I operate on a Windows system so just getting my VS code and rails server to function properly took more tinkering than i would have ever dreamed. So you can imagine my feelings when I found out i needed to figure out how to make a temporary ssl certificate for my server. After a few attempts with a tool i found called ngrok, which did work for a second but was very unreliable as the address would change every time you ran it, I decided to scrap the endeavor. I continued with my "do what you know first" attitude and saved my omniauth dilemma for the last minute. In hopes of losing the omniauth battle but winning the war i decided to try github. Github is way easier, although it is worth mentioning that everything seems a bit harder than it is at first. Make sure your app is an OAuth app, please dont be like me and use the wrong kind first and almost have a meltdown because "none of these apps respect me". Once my calm returned i realized my keys looked wrong and the ENV being called on them was wrong since i was using a credentials.yml file and voila! No secure connection necessary just some good old fashioned user email validation.
